1) What is React Js?
1)Ans:-  React.js, is an open-source JavaScript library for building user interfaces, particularly for single-page applications (SPAs) and complex web interfaces. Developed by Facebook

2)What is NPM in React Js? 
2)Ans:- npm stands for Node Package Manager. npm is the default package manager for Node.js, a JavaScript runtime environment, and it's also widely used in the React.js for managing dependencies and packages.

3)What is Role of Node Js in react Js? 
3)Ans:- Node.js plays several important roles in development of React.js

       - Development environment: Node.js is commonly used as the runtime environment for setting up development servers and build tools for React.js applications.

       - Server-side rendering (SSR): Node.js can be used to implement server-side rendering for React.js applications.

       - Proxy server: During development, Node.js can be used as a proxy server to handle requests to external APIs or resources.

       - API server: In many React.js applications, Node.js is used to implement the backend API server.

       - Middleware: Node.js middleware can be used to implement features like authentication, authorization, logging, and error handling in React.js applications

4)What is CLI command In React Js? 
4)Ans:- In React.js, CLI (Command Line Interface) commands are tools provided by various development environments and frameworks to Simplify the development process.  i.c create-react-app,npm run build,npm start,npm install,npm test.

5)What is Components in React Js? 
5)Ans:- In React.js, components are the building blocks of user interfaces. They are reusable.Components can be composed together to create complex UIs
     There are two main types of components in React.js:
                    1)Functional Components
                    2)Class Components: 

6)What is Header and Content Components in React Js? 
6)Ans:- In a React.js application, the Header and Content components are commonly used to structure the layout of the user interface.   

7)How to install React Js on Windows, linux Operating System? How
to install NPM and How to check version of NPM? 
7)Ans:-
       for window Dowanload Node js from there official website,And run command (node -v) for version check,then run creat react app for install React app,
       for linux run command in terminal (sudo apt update) (sudo apt install nodejs npm) This command will install both Node.js and npm on your system. and the (node -v) for check version of node.

8)How to check version of React Js? 
8)Ans:- for checking version of react run this command (npm list react)

9)How to change in components of React Js? 
9)Ans:- Changing components in React.js involves modifying the code of the components to achieve the desired behavior or appearance 
        identify componets and understand the componets, make changes to JSX,update componets logic and test it this is the step of change in componets of react js.

        
